As per
https://www.robotroom.com/PCB-Layout-Tips.html

* Flexible Voltage Regulator Layout
  :PROPERTIES:
  :CUSTOM_ID: flexible-voltage-regulator-layout
  :END:
linear voltage regulators
 order of leads & type of package
 varies from part to part

[[file:pcb_tips2/e028ae47b3ab68004563afce17683b2d2383d41c.png]]\\
Voltage regulator pinouts: 78L05, MCP1826, MCP1702-5002E

Sometime after the board has been made, you may find that the circuit
needs a bit more current, a higher input voltage, a lower dropout
voltage, or maybe you just ran out of stock of a particular voltage
regulator. With a little bit of forethought, you can design your circuit
board to accept a variety of regulators.

[[file:pcb_tips2/8b868a6490ae4d9e08afc369ecc9a78398865386.gif]]\\
Flexible voltage regulator PCB layout

Adding a fourth and fifth hole (in this case duplicating the input and
output pins) permits the following pinouts:

- +5, +UN, GND (top three holes)
- GND, +UN, +5 (installed backwards in top three holes)
- +UN, GND, +5 (middle three holes)
- +5, GND, +UN (installed backwards in middle three holes)
- GND, +5, +UN (bottom three holes)
- +UN, +5, GND (installed backwards in bottom three holes)

That covers all 6 permutations (3 factorial = 3! = 6) of pins. And, if
you make sure all of the holes are 0.040 inch diameter, then you have
covered both TO-220 and TO-92 packages.

[[file:pcb_tips2/045d0df934ac00da1202cd0d13f54e13387f2d48.jpg]]\\
Universal layout for three-pin linear voltage regulators

* Choice of Trimmer Potentiometers
  :PROPERTIES:
  :CUSTOM_ID: TRIMPOT
  :END:

Small potentiometers (often called trimmers or trimpots) are also
available in a [[file:Trimpots.html][variety of packages]]. The most
common trimpots have 0.1-inch spaced leads, but the leads are attached
in slightly different places with respect to the component body.

[[file:pcb_tips2/577f4eeae87435ebb25a5f6510a7383ee2d31ab5.jpg]]\\
Trimpot potentiometer pinouts.

The leftmost trimpot is the least expense and doesn't tend to twist off
the board due to the staggered pins. The next trimpot is more compact,
but more expensive. The next trimpot is a multiturn that can be mounted
vertically or laid flat. The rightmost trimpot has a finger-friendly
dial, with the non-staggered pins located at the front of the package.

[[file:pcb_tips2/04e6377bba3c748ec021e6cc91e73cf19839b56c.gif]]\\
Potentiometer multi-compatible PCB layout

To be compatible with all of those pinouts, you can lay out a 3×3 grid
from the front of the package up through the center. All of the trimpots
in the previous photograph can be dropped into that same location on the
board.

On almost all through-hole potentiometers, the center pin tends to be
the wiper. However, you could extend the hole pattern grid to the top of
the layout in case you need to orient the potentiometer “upside down” if
turning the potentiometer in a certain direction produces the opposite
effect desired on the circuit.

* Choice of Capacitors
  :PROPERTIES:
  :CUSTOM_ID: choice-of-capacitors
  :END:

Use three holes for capacitors, so that you can choose between 0.1 inch
and 0.2 inch spaced parts at assembly time.

[[file:pcb_tips2/549d74c06f29165660bc2c3427a129f9e582938d.gif]]
   [[file:pcb_tips2/326c48942d8db781d758eebc40b5078f1ecfe0d8.jpg]]\\
Extended capacitor pattern accepts capacitors with the same values but
different lead spacings

For consistancy, make the first pad square and have it be positive. The
other two holes are ground and are connected together.

Regardless of the size of the capacitor you insert, you always know that
the first hole must be filled. The silkscreen outline also makes it
understood that smaller parts should be aligned to the first hole.

An added benefit of the extra hole is that you can use it as a spare
ground connection if you made a mistake somewhere else on the board.

* Error-Free Part Insertion
  :PROPERTIES:
  :CUSTOM_ID: error-free-part-insertion
  :END:

Tactile pushbuttons are commonplace on electronic circuits due to their
compact size, high reliability, and low cost. The most popular tactile
pushbutton package contains four pins (for stability when pressed) and
appears to be square.

[[file:pcb_tips2/4bd565058834b6f342c11274b2c82a44a32d750f.png]]\\
Tactile pushbutton.

In reality, the package is rectangular (slightly longer in one
dimension), but you can incorrectly install it 90° out of orientation if
you force the pins into the PCB holes. Normally, when pressed, the
button connects one pair of pins to the other pair of pins. But, if the
tactile button is installed incorrectly, it will seem as though the
button is always pressed.

Before installing, you can carefully measure the continuity of the pins
using a multimeter. Or, you can lay out the PCB such that the button can
be installed in any orientation and still work correctly.

[[file:pcb_tips2/a00e0d2c393830f4cb1489937cb99b77c036c494.gif]]\\
Pushbutton corner connections PCB layout

By wiring the circuit only to the pins on opposite corners, you are sure
to get only one pin from one side of the switch, and another pin from
the opposite side, electrically speaking. You can demonstrate this to
yourself by measuring the continuity of opposite pins on a switch using
a multimeter. No matter which two corner leads you select, a standard
tactile pushbutton will always show continuity when pressed and no
continuity when released.

* Button Choice
  :PROPERTIES:
  :CUSTOM_ID: button-choice
  :END:

You can make the pushbutton pattern more versitile by adding three extra
holes in the middle.

[[file:pcb_tips2/0e885f42648e8ba945b963979d60bc37a892ebe3.gif]]
 [[file:pcb_tips2/12917cea6db701a12894ea3606fba01408353f63.jpg]]\\
Pushbutton pattern permits choice of parts

Now the patten can fit several types of pushbuttons or a Molex KK
connector for off-board buttons.
